cat 1 | kat | noun 1 a small domesticated carnivorous mammal with soft fur, a short snout, and retractable claws. It is widely kept as a pet or for catching mice, and many breeds have been developed. Felis catus, family Felidae (the cat family); it was probably domesticated in ancient Egypt from the local race of wildcat. The cat family also includes the ocelot, serval, margay, lynx, and the big cats • a wild animal of the cat family. See also big cat: a marbled cat. • used in names of catlike animals of other families, e.g., ring-tailed cat. • historical short for cat-o'-nine-tails • short for catfish • short for cathead • short for catboat 2 informal, mainly North American English (especially among jazz enthusiasts) a man: this West Coast cat had managed him since the early 80s | the cat went crazy on the horn. verb (cats) (, catting | kadiNG |) (, catted | kadəd |) [with object] Nautical raise (an anchor) from the surface of the water to the cathead: I kept her off the wind and sailing free until I had the anchor catted. PHRASES cat and mouse a series of cunning maneuvers designed to thwart an opponent: their elite fighters are playing cat and mouse with US troops. a cat may look at a king proverb even a person of low status or importance has rights. the cat's pajamas (the cat's meow) (British English the cat's whiskers) informal an excellent person or thing: this car is the cat's pajamas | you'll be the cat's meow with this classic Halloween makeup look. [1920s: originally US]has the cat got your tongue? said to someone who, when expected to speak, remains silent: What's your name? Cat got your tongue?. let the cat out of the bag informal reveal a secret carelessly or by mistake: now that Viola had let the cat out of the bag, she had no option but to confess. like a cat on a hot tin roof (British English like a cat on hot bricks) informal very agitated or anxious. like herding cats informal used to refer to a difficult or impossible task, typically an attempt to organize a group of people: controlling the members of this expedition is like herding cats. like the cat that got the cream (also like the cat that stole the cream) British English informal self-satisfied, having achieved one's objective: you sit in this office like the cat that got the cream and expect the world to revolve around you. look like something the cat dragged in (also look like something the cat brought in) informal (of a person) look very dirty or disheveled. look what the cat dragged in informal used to express surprise, disapproval, or annoyance at the arrival of a person: well, well, look what the cat dragged in!. put the cat among the pigeons (also set the cat among the pigeons) British English say or do something that is likely to cause trouble or controversy. when the cat's away, the mice will play proverb people will naturally take advantage of the absence of someone in authority to do as they like: “His parents are away for the weekend.” “I see—while the cat's away.”. ORIGIN Old English catt, catte, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kat and German Katze; reinforced in Middle English by forms from late Latin cattus.