go 1 | ɡō | verb (third singular present goes; present participle going; past went; past participle gone) 1 [no object, usually with adverbial of direction] move from one place to another; travel: he went out to the store | she longs to go back home | we've got a long way to go. • travel a specified distance: you just have to go a few miles to get to the road. • travel or move in order to engage in a specified activity or course of action: let's go and have a beer | [with infinitive] : we went to see her | [with present participle] : she used to go hunting. • attend or visit for a particular purpose: we went to the movies. • (of a thing) lie or extend in a certain direction: the scar started just above her ankle and went all the way up inside her leg. • change in level, amount, or rank in a specified direction: prices went up by 15 percent | we've had some rain that has prevented lake levels from going down. • informal said in various expressions when angrily or contemptuously dismissing someone: go and get stuffed. • informal used to emphasize the speaker's annoyance at a specified action or event: then he goes and spoils it all | [with present participle] : don't go poking your nose where you shouldn't. • [in imperative] begin motion (used in a starter's order to begin a race): ready, set, go!. 2 [no object] leave; depart: I really must go. • (of time) pass or elapse: the hours went by | three years went past. • pass a specified amount of time in a particular way or under particular circumstances: I went a year without seeing my kids | sometimes they went for two months without talking. • come to an end; cease to exist: a golden age that has now gone for good | 11,500 jobs are due to go by next year. • leave or resign from a post: I tried to persuade the Chancellor not to go. • die (used euphemistically): I'd like to see my grandchildren before I go. • be lost or stolen: when he returned minutes later, his equipment was gone. • (of money) be spent, especially in a specified way: the rest of his money went into medical expenses. 3 (be going to be/do something) intend or be likely or intended to be or do something; be about to (used to express a future tense): I'm going to be late for work | she's going to have a baby. 4 [no object, with complement] pass into a specified state, especially an undesirable one: the food is going bad | he's gone crazy | her mind immediately went blank. • make a sound of a specified kind: the engine went bang. • (of a bell or similar device) make a sound in functioning: I heard the buzzer go four times. 5 [no object] proceed in a specified way or have a specified outcome; turn out: how did the weekend go? | it all went off smoothly. • be acceptable or permitted: underground events where anything goes. 6 [no object] be harmonious, complementary, or matching: rosemary goes with roast lamb | the earrings and the scarf don't really go. • be found in the same place or situation; be associated: cooking and eating go together. 7 [no object] (of a machine or device) function: my car won't go. • continue in operation or existence: the committee was kept going even when its existence could no longer be justified. 8 (of a thing) contribute to or be put into (a whole); be used for or devoted to: considerable effort went into making the operation successful | a large part of the museum's resources go toward maintaining the exhibits. • used to indicate how many people a supply of food, money, or another resource is sufficient for or how much can be achieved using it: the sale will go a long way toward easing the huge debt burden | a little luck can go a long way. 9 [no object] (of an article) be regularly kept or put in a particular place: remember which card goes in which slot. • fit or be able to be accommodated in a particular place or space: you're trying to fit a round peg into a square hole, and it just won't go. 10 (of a song, account, verse, etc.) have a specified content or wording: if you haven't heard it, the story goes like this. • [with direct speech] informal say: the kids go, “Yeah, sure.”. 11 [no object] informal use a toilet; urinate or defecate: he had to go but couldn't, because she was still in the bathroom. noun (plural goes) 1 informal an attempt or trial at something: I thought I'd give it a go. 2 informal, mainly British English a person's turn to use or do something: I had a go on Nigel's racing bike | come on Tony, it's your go. • used in reference to a single item, action, or spell of activity: he put it to his lips then knocked it back in one go. 3 British English informal spirit, animation, or energy: there's no go in me at all these days. • informal vigorous activity: it's all go around here. 4 informal, dated a state of affairs: this seems a rum sort of go. • informal an attack of illness: he's had this nasty go of dysentery. 5 North American English informal a project or undertaking that has been approved: tell them the project is a go. adjective [predicative] informal functioning properly: all systems go. PHRASES as far as it goes (also so far as it goes) bearing in mind its limitations (said when qualifying praise of something): the book is a useful catalog as far as it goes. as — go compared to the average or typical one of the specified kind: as castles go it is small and old. from the word go informal from the very beginning. go figure! North American English informal said to express the belief that something is amazing or incredible: there'll even (go figure) be an Elvis impersonator. go for it | ˈɡō fər ˌit | strive to the utmost to gain or achieve something (frequently said as an exhortation): sounds like a good idea—go for it!. go halves (British English also go shares) share something equally: she'd promised to go halves with him if he got anywhere in the negotiations. going!, gone! an auctioneer's announcement that bidding is closing or closed. going on — (British English also going on for —) approaching a specified time, age, or amount: I was going on fourteen when I went to my first gig. go it (also go to it) British English informal act in an energetic or enthusiastic way: Go it, Dad! Give him what for!. go to show (also go to prove) (of an occurrence) serve as evidence or proof of something: the whole mess goes to show that faith in the chairman is no substitute for studying the balance sheet. have a go at 1 make an attempt at; try: let me have a go at straightening the rim. 2 mainly British English attack or criticize: she's always having a go at me. have — going for one informal used to indicate how much someone has in their favor or to their advantage: Why did she do it? She had so much going for her. make a go of informal be successful in (something): he's determined to make a go of his marriage. on the go | ˌän T͟Hə ˈɡō, ˌôn T͟Hə ˈɡō | informal very active or busy: he's been on the go all evening. to go | tə ˈɡō | mainly North American English (of food or drink from a restaurant or cafe) to be eaten or drunk off the premises: order one large cheese-and-peppers pizza, to go | (to-go as adjective) : if possible, grab a to-go coffee and hit the road early. what goes around comes around | (h)wət ˌɡōz əˌround ˈkəmz əˌround | proverb the consequences of one's actions will have to be dealt with eventually. who goes there? said by a sentry as a challenge. PHRASAL VERBS go about | ˌɡō əˈbout | 1 (go about something) begin or carry on with an activity: you are going about this in the wrong way. 2 Sailing change to an opposite tack: the yacht went about, and away toward France again. go after | ˌɡō ˈaftər | (go after someone or something) pursue someone or something: he went after the burglars | we're both going after the same job. go against 1 (go against something) oppose or resist something: he refused to go against the unions. • be contrary to a feeling or principle: these tactics go against many of our instincts. 2 (go against someone) (of a decision or result) be unfavourable for someone: the tribunal's decision went against them. go ahead | ˌɡō əˈhed | proceed: the project will go ahead | the government intends to go ahead with its tax cutting plans. go along | ˌɡō əˈlôNG, ˌɡō əˈläNG | continue or progress: he made up the story as he went along | things are going along nicely. go along with | ˌɡō əˈlôNG wiTH, ˌɡō əˈlôNG wiT͟H, ˌɡō əˈläNG wiTH, ˌɡō əˈläNG wiT͟H | (go along with someone or something) give one's consent or agreement to a person or their views: the group has decided to go along with the committee's proposal. go around with (go around with someone) be regularly in the company of someone: he goes around with some of the neighborhood kids. go at (go at someone) attack someone: the man went at him with a steel bar. • (go at something) energetically tackle something: he went at things with a daunting eagerness. go back | ˌɡō ˈbak | 1 (of a clock) be set to an earlier standard time, especially at the end of daylight saving time: the clocks went back last weekend. 2 (of two people) have known each other for a specified, typically long, period of time: Victor and I go back longer than I care to admit. go back on (go back on something) fail to keep a promise: he wouldn't go back on his word. go by | ˈɡō bī | (go by something) be known or called by a specified name: he goes by the name of Crawford. go down | ˌɡō ˈdoun | 1 (of a ship or aircraft) sink or crash: he saw eleven B-17s go down. • be defeated in a contest: they went down 2–1. 2 (of a person, period, or event) be recorded or remembered in a particular way: his name will now go down in history. 3 be swallowed: solids can sometimes go down much easier than liquids. 4 (of a person, action, or work) elicit a specified reaction: my slide shows went down reasonably well. 5 get worse in quality: the neighborhood has gone down a lot recently. 6 North American English informal happen: you really don't know what's going down?. 7 British English informal leave a university, especially Oxford or Cambridge, after finishing one's studies: Dobbins went down last spring. 8 British English informal be sent to prison: he went down for three years. go down on (go down on someone) vulgar slang perform oral sex on someone. go down with (go down with something) British English begin to suffer from an illness: I went down with an attack of bronchitis. go for | ˈɡō fər, ˈɡō fôr | 1 (go for something) decide on something; choose something: I wished that we had gone for plan B. • (go for someone or something) tend to find a particular type of person attractive: Dionne went for the outlaw type. 2 (go for something) attempt to gain or attain: he went for a job as a delivery driver. 3 (go for someone) launch oneself at someone; attack someone: she went for him with clawed hands. 4 (go for something) end up having a specified negative value or effect: my good intentions went for nothing | the scene goes for little in a production that seems oblivious to the comedy. 5 (go for someone or something) apply to or have relevance for someone or something: the same goes for money-grubbing lawyers. go forward | ˌɡō ˈfôrwərd | (of a clock) be set to a later standard time, especially daylight saving time: the clocks went forward on Saturday evening. go in for 1 (go in for something) like or habitually take part in an activity: I don't go in for the social whirl. 2 (go in for something) British English enter a competition or sit an examination: he went in for the exam. go in with (go in with someone) join someone in starting a business: my brothers are opening a garage and they want me to go in with them. go into | ˈɡō into͞o, ˌɡō ˈintə | 1 (go into something) take up a subject in study or as an occupation: he went into bankruptcy law. 2 (go into something) start discussing a subject extensively: I don't want to go into it; it's Pat's story to tell. 3 (go into something) investigate or inquire into something: there's no need to go into it now. 4 (go into something) (of a whole number) be capable of dividing another, typically without a remainder: six will go into eighteen, but not into five. go off | ˌɡō ˈôf, ˌɡō ˈäf | 1 (of a gun, bomb, or similar device) explode or fire: the pistol suddenly went off. • (of an alarm) begin to sound: the fire alarm went off at the first hint of smoke. • US English informal become suddenly angry; lose one's temper: if you got in an argument with him, he'd just go off | he went off on his critics during an interview. 2 (of food or drink) begin to decompose and become inedible: milk went off so quickly in hot weather. 3 (go off something) British English begin to dislike something: I went off chocolate when I was pregnant. 4 British English informal go to sleep: I went off as soon as my head hit the pillow. go on | ˌɡō ˈän, ˌɡō ˈôn | 1 (of a light, electricity, etc.) start working: the street lights went on. 2 [often with present participle] continue or persevere: I can't go on protecting you. • talk at great length, especially tediously or angrily: she went on about how lovely it would be to escape from the city | I was running late but he kept going on. • continue speaking or doing something after a short pause: [with direct speech] : “I don't understand,” she went on. • said when encouraging someone or expressing disbelief: go on, tell him!. 3 happen: we still don't know what went on there. 4 [often with infinitive] proceed to do: she went on to do postgraduate work. go on at (go on at someone) British English tell off or criticize someone: she goes on at him continually. go out | ˌɡō ˈout | 1 (of a fire or light) be extinguished: a few minutes later the lights went out. • cease operating or functioning: the power went out on our block last night. 2 (of the tide) ebb; recede to low tide: the tide was going out. 3 leave one's home to go to an entertainment or social event, typically in the evening: I'm going out for dinner | I hardly ever go out. 4 carry on a regular romantic or sexual relationship: he was going out with her best friend | we had been going out for two months. 5 used to convey someone's deep sympathy or similar feeling: the boy's heart went out to the pitiful figure | our thoughts go out to his friends and family. 6 Golf play the first nine holes in a round of eighteen holes. Compare with come home, (see home): McAllister went out in 43. 7 (in some card games) be the first to dispose of all the cards in one's hand: a player may not go out unless his side has completed at least one canasta. go over | ˌɡō ˈōvər | 1 (go over something) consider, examine, or check something: I want to go over these plans with you again. 2 (especially of an action or performance) be received in a specified way: his earnestness would go over well in a courtroom. go over to (go over to something) change one's allegiance or religion to another: how can anyone trust any politician when they go over to the other side?. go around | ˌɡō ˈround | (also go round) 1 spin; revolve: the wheels were going around. 2 (especially of food) be sufficient to supply everybody present: there was barely enough food to go around. go through | ˌɡō ˈTHro͞o | 1 (go through something) undergo a difficult period or experience: the country is going through a period of economic instability. 2 (go through something) search through or examine something, especially methodically: she started to go through the bundle of letters. 3 (of a proposal or contract) be officially approved or completed: the sale of the building is set to go through. 4 (go through something) use up or spend available money or other resources: we went through two whole bottles of sunscreen. 5 (go through something) (of a book) be successively published in a specified number of editions: within two years it went through thirty-one editions. 6 Australian English informal leave hastily to avoid an obligation; abscond: the first few times she went through on him nearly broke his heart. go through with | ˌɡō ˈTHro͞o wiTH, ˌɡō ˈTHro͞o wiT͟H | (go through with something) perform an action to completion despite difficulty or unwillingness: he bravely went through with the ceremony. go to | ˈɡō tə, ˈɡō to͞o | 1 (go to somewhere) attend a school, college, or university over a period of time: he went to Brown University. 2 (go to something) enter into a specified state or course of action: she went to sleep. 3 (go to someone) be given or awarded to: the top prize went to a twenty-four-year-old sculptor. 4 (go to something) use a toilet: I need to go to the bathroom. 5 (go to!) archaic said to express disbelief, impatience, or admonition: Go to! You are a wag. go under | ˌɡō ˈəndər | 1 (of a business) become bankrupt: about six years after I left, the company went under. 2 (go under something) be known or called by a specified name: he now goes under the name Charles Perez. go up | ˌɡō ˈəp | 1 (of a building or other structure) be built: a number of housing developments went up. 2 explode or suddenly burst into flames: last night two factories went up in flames. 3 British English informal begin one's studies at a university, especially Oxford or Cambridge: he went up to Oxford to read Chemistry. go with | ˈɡō wiTH, ˈɡō wiT͟H | 1 (go with someone or something) give one's consent or agreement to a person or their views. 2 (go with someone) have a romantic or sexual relationship with someone: he goes with other women. go without suffer lack or deprivation: I like to give my children what they want, even if I have to go without. • (go without something) manage without something one usually has: how long can a human being go without sleep?. USAGE The use of go followed by and, as in ‘I must go and change’ (rather than ‘I must go to change’), is extremely common but is regarded by some grammarians as an oddity. For more details, see and ORIGIN Old English gān, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch gaan and German gehen; the form went was originally the past tense of wend.