good | ɡo͝od | adjective (better | ˈbedər |) (, best | best |) 1 to be desired or approved of: a good quality of life | we live at peace with each other, which is good | [as exclamation] : Good! The more people the better!. • pleasing and welcome: she was pleased to hear good news about him. • expressing approval: the play had good reviews. 2 having the qualities required for a particular role: the schools here are good. • skilled at doing or dealing with a specified thing: I'm good at crosswords | he was good with children. • useful, advantageous, or beneficial in effect: too much sun is not good for you. • appropriate to a particular purpose: this is a good month for planting seeds. • (of language) with correct grammar and pronunciation: she speaks good English. • strictly adhering to or fulfilling all the principles of a particular cause, religion, or party: I am the eldest of five in a good Catholic family. 3 possessing or displaying moral virtue: I've met many good people who made me feel ashamed of my own shortcomings | (the good as plural noun) : the rich and the good shared the same fate as the poor and the bad. • showing kindness: you are good—thank you. • obedient to rules or conventions: accustom the child to being rewarded for good behavior. • used to address or refer to people, especially in a patronizing or humorous way: the good people of the city were disconcerted. • commanding respect: he was concerned with establishing and maintaining his good name. • belonging or relating to a high social class: he comes from a good family. 4 giving pleasure; enjoyable or satisfying: the streets fill up with people looking for a good time. • pleasant to look at; attractive: you're looking pretty good. • (of clothes) smart and suitable for formal wear: he went upstairs to change out of his good suit. 5 [attributive] thorough: have a good look around | the attic needed a good cleaning. • used to emphasize that a number is at least as great as one claims: they're a good twenty years younger. • used to emphasize a following adjective: we had a good long hug | it'll be good and dark by then. • fairly large: there's a good chance that we may be able to help you figurative | a good crowd. 6 (of a ticket) valid: the ticket is good for travel from May to September. • reliably providing: they found him good for a laugh. • sufficient to pay for: his money was good for a bottle of whiskey. 7 used in conjunction with the name of God or a related expression as an exclamation of extreme surprise or anger: good heavens!. noun 1 that which is morally right; righteousness: a mysterious balance of good and evil. 2 benefit or advantage to someone or something: he convinces his father to use his genius for the good of mankind | the preservation of old buildings matters because they contribute to the general public good | he is too clever for his own good. adverb informal well: my mother could never cook this good. PHRASES all to the good to be welcomed without qualification. as good as — very nearly —: she's as good as here. • used of a result which will inevitably follow: if we pass on the information, he's as good as dead. as good as gold (also good as gold) (especially of a child) very well mannered: the children were as good as gold, waiting patiently at the entrance | in prison, Jay was as good as gold. • in a very good condition or state: a couple of casts later and I was as good as gold. be any good have some merit: tell me whether that picture is any good. • be of some help in dealing with a situation: I don't suppose it would be any good asking Stan. be good to go informal, mainly North American English be ready or prepared for something: slip on a bright pair of pumps and you're good to go. be much good [with negative] have much merit: he was not much good as a candidate. • be much help in dealing with a situation: the fence is reasonably solid, but that's not much good if the gate is open. be no good have no merit: four publishers told me my book was no good. • be no help in dealing with a situation: it was no good trying to ward things off. be so good as to do something (also be good enough to do something) used to make a polite request: would you be so good as to answer?. be — to the good have a specified net profit or advantage: I came out $7 to the good. do good 1 act virtuously, especially by helping others. 2 make a helpful contribution to a situation: could the discussion do any good?. do someone good be beneficial to someone, especially to their health: the walk will do you good. for good (also for good and all) forever; definitively: the experience almost frightened me away for good. the Good Book the Bible. good for you (also good on you) used to express praise or approval of something said or done, or enjoyment in a person's success or good fortune: “I'm taking my driving test next month.” “Good for you!” | good on you for standing your ground. the Good Shepherd a name for Jesus. [with biblical allusion to John 10:1–16]a good word words in recommendation or defense of a person: I hoped you might put in a good word for me with your friends. in good time 1 with no risk of being late: I arrived in good time. 2 (also all in good time) in due course but without haste: you shall have a puppy all in good time. make good be successful: a college friend who made good in Hollywood. make something good 1 compensate for loss, damage, or expense: if I scratched the table I'd make good the damage. • repair or restore after damage: make good the wall where you have buried the cable. 2 fulfill a promise or claim: I challenged him to make good his boast. take something in good part not be offended by something: he took her abruptness in good part. up to no good doing something wrong. USAGE The adverb corresponding to the adjective good is well: ‘she is a good swimmer who performs well in meets’. Confusion sometimes arises because well is also an adjective meaning ‘in good health, healthy,’ for which good is widely used informally as a substitute: ‘I feel well’, meaning ‘I feel healthy’—versus the informal ‘I feel good’, meaning either ‘I feel healthy’ or ‘I am in a good mood.’ See also bad ORIGIN Old English gōd, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch goed and German gut.