run verb 1 she jumped out of her car and ran across the road. sprint, race, dart, rush, dash, hasten, hurry, scurry, scuttle, scamper, hare, bolt, bound, fly, gallop, career, charge, pound, shoot, hurtle, speed, streak, whiz, zoom, sweep, go like lightning, go hell for leather, go like the wind, flash, double; jog, lope, trot, jogtrot, dogtrot; informal tear, pelt, scoot, hotfoot it, belt, zip, whip, go like a bat out of hell, step on it, get a move on, get cracking, put on some speed, stir one's stumps; British English informal hop it, bomb, leg it; North American English informal boogie, hightail it, barrel, get the lead out; informal, dated cut along; archaic post, hie. ANTONYMS dawdle. 2 the other three men turned and ran. flee, run away, run off, make a run for it, run for it, take flight, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, beat a (hasty) retreat, make a quick exit, make one's getaway, escape, head for the hills, do a disappearing act; informal beat it, clear off, clear out, vamoose, skedaddle, split, cut and run, show a clean pair of heels, turn tail, scram; British English informal do a runner, scarper, do a bunk, leg it; North American English informal light out, bug out, cut out, peel out, take a powder, skiddoo; Australian English informal go through, shoot through; British English vulgar slang bugger off; archaic fly. ANTONYMS stay. 3 he decided to run in the marathon. compete, take part, participate; enter, be in. 4 my horse ran second to Suave Dancer in this race last year. finish, come in, come. 5 a shiver ran down my spine | the ball ran toward the green. go, pass, move, travel; roll, coast. 6 Grant ran his eye down the column of figures. cast, pass, skim, flick, slide. 7 a narrow, twisting road which runs the length of the Duddon valley. extend, stretch, reach, range, continue, go. 8 rainwater ran from the eaves. flow, pour, stream, gush, flood, glide, cascade, spurt, jet, issue; roll, course, slide, spill, trickle, seep, drip, dribble, leak; British English informal sloosh. 9 the walls were running with condensation. stream with, drip with, be covered with, be wet with; be flooded by. 10 my nose was running. stream, drip, exude/secrete/ooze liquid. 11 a courtesy bus runs to Sorrento three times a day. travel, ply, shuttle, go, make a regular journey. 12 I'll run you back to your hotel. drive, give someone a lift, take, bring, ferry, chauffeur; transport, convey. 13 he runs a transport company. be in charge of, manage, administer, direct, control, be in control of, be the boss of, boss, head, lead, govern, supervise, superintend, oversee, look after, organize, coordinate, regulate; operate, conduct, carry on, own; preside over, officiate at. 14 he could no longer afford to run a car. maintain, keep, own, possess, have, drive. 15 they ran a series of tests. carry out, do, perform, fulfill, execute. 16 he left the engine running | her car runs well. operate, function, work, go, be in operation; tick over, idle; perform, behave. 17 the lease runs for twenty years. be valid, last, be in effect, operate, be in operation, be operative, be current, continue, be effective, have force, have effect. 18 the show ran in the West End for two years. be staged, be presented, be performed, be on, be put on, be produced; be mounted; be screened; last. 19 he first ran for president in 1984. stand for, stand for election as, stand as a candidate for, be a contender for, put oneself forward for, put oneself up for. 20 the Guardian ran the story on Friday. publish, print, feature, carry, put out, release, issue. 21 they run drugs for the cocaine cartels. smuggle, traffic in, deal in. 22 they were run out of town. chase, drive, hunt, hound, put to flight. noun 1 his early morning run along the Embankment. sprint, race, dash, gallop, rush, spurt; jog, trot. 2 the New York-Washington run. route, way, course, journey; circuit, round, beat. 3 we went out for a run in the car. drive, ride, turn; trip, excursion, outing, jaunt, short journey, airing; informal spin, joyride, tootle; Scottish English informal hurl. 4 the current run of unseasonably hot weather | an unbeaten run of eleven home victories. period, spell, stretch, spate, bout; patch, interval, time; series, succession, sequence, string, chain, streak. 5 the budget accelerated a run on sterling. demand for, rush for, sudden request for, clamor for. 6 Margaret gave them the run of her home. unrestricted/free use of, unrestricted access to; a free hand in, a free rein in. 7 it's certainly different from the usual run of East European cafes. type, kind, sort, variety, class, category, order. 8 against the run of play, Mytchett scored a second goal. trend, tendency, course, direction, movement, drift, tide, current; tenor. 9 the wire mesh of a chicken run. enclosure, pen, coop, compound. 10 a steep run with 10 cm of fresh snow. slope, piste, track; bump run; North American English trail. 11 she had a run in her nylons. rip, tear, snag, hole; British English ladder. PHRASES in the long run eventually, in the end, ultimately, when all is said and done, in the final analysis, in the fullness of time; British English informal at the end of the day. on the run 1 a con man on the run. on the loose, at large, loose; running away, fleeing, in flight, fugitive; informal AWOL; North American English informal on the lam. 2 I've been on the run all day. busy, rushing about, rushed off one's feet, dashing about, hurrying about, in a rush, in a hurry, on the move, active; informal on the go. run across we ran across David when we were playing in LA. meet (by chance), come across, run into, chance on, stumble on/across, happen on; informal bump into; archaic run against. run after informal ever since his school days, girls have been running after him. pursue, chase, make romantic advances to, flirt with; informal make up to, make eyes at, give the come-on to, come on to, be all over; North American English informal vamp; dated set one's cap at. run along informal run along now, can't you see I'm busy?. go away, be off with you, shoo, on your way, make yourself scarce; informal scram, buzz off, skedaddle, scat, beat it, get lost, shove off, clear off; British English informal hop it; South African English informal hamba, voetsak; literary begone, avaunt. run away 1 she screamed and the men ran away. flee, run off, make a run for it, run for it, take flight, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, beat a (hasty) retreat, make a quick exit, make one's getaway, escape, head for the hills; informal beat it, clear off, clear out, vamoose, skedaddle, split, cut and run, show a clean pair of heels, turn tail, scram, hook it, fly the coop, skip off, do a fade; British English informal do a runner, scarper, do a bunk, leg it; North American English informal light out, bug out, cut out, peel out, take a powder, skiddoo; Australian English informal go through, shoot through; archaic fly, levant. ANTONYMS stay. 2 the administration has tried to run away from its responsibilities. evade, dodge, get out of, shirk; avoid, disregard, ignore, take no notice of, pay no attention to, turn one's back on; informal shut one's eyes to, duck, cop out of. ANTONYMS face up to, deal with. 3 Doyle ran away with another man's wife. run off with, elope with. 4 Mario Andretti ran away with the championship. win easily, win hands down; informal win by a mile, walk it, romp home. run down he was dismayed to discover how much the farm had run down. decline, degenerate, go downhill, become dilapidated, go to seed, fall into decay, decay, go to rack and ruin; informal go to pot, go to the dogs. ANTONYMS recover, improve. run for it flee, make a run for it, run away, run off, take flight, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, beat a (hasty) retreat, make a quick exit, make one's getaway, escape, head for the hills, take oneself off, decamp, abscond, do a disappearing act; informal beat it, clear off, clear out, vamoose, skedaddle, split, cut and run, show a clean pair of heels, scram, hook it, fly the coop, do a fade; British English informal do a runner, scarper, do a bunk, leg it; North American English informal light out, bug out, cut out, peel out, skiddoo. run high patriotic fervor was running high. be strong, be vehement, be fervent, be passionate, be intense. run in he has a history of heart disease, which runs in the family. be common in, be frequently found in, be inherent in. run into 1 the plane was badly damaged when it ran into a parked aircraft. collide with, be in collision with, hit, strike, crash into, smash into, knock into, plow into, barge into, meet head-on, ram; North American English impact. ANTONYMS miss. 2 I ran into Hugo the other day. meet (by chance), run across, chance on, stumble on/across, happen on; informal bump into; archaic run against. 3 the negotiators immediately ran into a problem. experience, encounter, meet with, be faced with, run up against, be confronted with, come face to face with. 4 Peter had been left with debts running into six figures. reach, extend to, be as high/much as. run low food supplies were running low. dwindle, diminish, become depleted, get less, be used up, become exhausted, be short, be in short supply, be tight. ANTONYMS be plentiful. run off 1 three youths scrambled out of the car and ran off. flee, run away, make a run for it, run for it, take flight, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, beat a (hasty) retreat, make a quick exit, make one's getaway, escape, head for the hills, make oneself scarce, decamp, abscond, do a disappearing act; informal beat it, clear off, clear out, vamoose, skedaddle, split, cut and run, show a clean pair of heels, scram, hook it, skip off; British English informal do a runner, scarper, do a bunk, have it away (on one's toes), leg it; North American English informal light out, bug out, cut out, peel out, take a powder, skiddoo; Australian English informal go through, shoot through; British English vulgar slang bugger off; archaic fly, levant. ANTONYMS stay. 2 informal his wife ran off with one of the doctors. run away with, elope with, go off with. 3 informal he ran off with the $1000 in the appeal fund. steal, take, snatch, purloin, abscond with, help oneself to; pilfer, embezzle, misappropriate; informal walk off/away with, swipe, nab, rip off, lift, liberate, filch, snaffle, snitch; British English informal pinch, half-inch, whip, knock off, nobble; North American English informal heist, glom; Australian English informal snavel; West Indian English informal tief. run on 1 the call ran on for two and a quarter hours. continue, go on, carry on, last, keep going, extend, stretch. 2 you're right, I do run on a bit at times, sorry. talk incessantly, talk a lot, rattle on, go on, chatter on, gabble on, ramble on; informal yak, gab, yackety-yak, yap, yabber, yatter; British English informal rabbit on, witter on, natter on, chunter on, talk the hind leg off a donkey; Scottish English Irish English slabber on; North American English informal run off at the mouth; Australian and New Zealand English informal mag; archaic twaddle, twattle, clack. 3 my thoughts ran too much on death. be preoccupied with, be concerned with, dwell on, focus on, be focused on, revolve around, center around, be dominated by, be fixated with. run out 1 food supplies were running out. be used up, dry up, be exhausted, be finished, give out, peter out, fail; exhaust. ANTONYMS be plentiful. 2 they've run out of cash. have none left, have no more of, be out of; use up, exhaust one's supply of, consume, eat up; sell out of; informal be fresh out of, be cleaned out of. 3 her contract was due to run out. expire, come to an end, end, terminate, finish; lapse, be no longer valid. run out on someone informal desert, abandon, leave in the lurch, jilt, leave high and dry, discard, cast aside, throw over, turn one's back on; informal walk out on, dump, ditch, leave someone holding the baby, leave flat; archaic forsake. run over 1 the bathwater's running over. overflow, spill over, spill, brim over; rare overbrim. 2 the project ran wildly over budget. exceed, go over, go beyond, overshoot, overreach. run rings around someone informal in a demonstration of classy center-forward play he ran rings around the opposition. surpass, outshine, outclass, overshadow, eclipse, exceed, excel, transcend, cap, top, outstrip, outdo, put to shame, make look pale by comparison, put in the shade, be better than, beat, outplay, outperform, upstage, dwarf; informal be head and shoulders above, be a cut above, leave standing; archaic outrival, outvie. run someone in informal arrest, take into custody, apprehend, detain, take in, take prisoner, put in jail, throw in jail; informal pick up, pull in, haul in, bust, nab, nail, do, collar, feel someone's collar; British English informal pinch, nick. run someone or something down 1 the boy was run down by joyriders. run over, knock down, knock over, knock to the ground; hit, strike. 2 she began to run him down in front of other people. criticize, denigrate, belittle, disparage, deprecate, speak badly off, speak ill of, find fault with; revile, vilify; informal put down, knock, bad-mouth, have a go at; British English informal rubbish, slag off; rare derogate, asperse. ANTONYMS praise. run someone or something over run down, knock down, knock over, knock to the ground, hit, strike. run someone through Campbell threatened to run him through with his sword. stab, pierce, transfix, impale. run something down 1 she finally ran a copy of the book down in Covent Garden. find, discover, locate, track down, trace, run to earth, unearth, hunt out, ferret out. 2 employers should run down their labor forces gradually. reduce, cut back on, cut, downsize, decrease, pare down, trim; phase out, wind down, wind up. ANTONYMS increase. run something off 1 Sophie, would you just run off a list of all the outstanding accounts, please?. copy, photocopy, xerox, duplicate, print, photostat, mimeograph; make, produce, do. 2 run off some of the water that has been standing in the pipes. drain, drain off, bleed off, draw off, pump out. run something over he quickly ran over the story. recapitulate, repeat, run through, go over, go through, reiterate, review; look through, look over, read through; informal recap. run the show informal be in charge, be in control, be the boss, be at the helm, be in the driving seat, be in the driver's seat, be at the wheel, be in the saddle, pull the strings, be responsible; informal call the shots. run through 1 her husband had long ago run through their money. squander, fritter away, spend, spend like water, throw away, dissipate, waste, go through, consume, use up; informal blow. 2 the markedly skeptical attitude that runs through his writings. pervade, permeate, suffuse, imbue, inform, go through. 3 he ran through his notes again. go over, go through, look over, look through, cast one's eye over, take a look at, run over; read, study, scan, peruse, review, examine, inspect; informal give something a/the once-over. 4 okay, let's run through scene three again. rehearse, practice, go through, go over, repeat, do again; recapitulate; North American English run down; informal recap. run to 1 the original bill ran to $22,000. reach, extend to, be as high as, be as much as; amount to, add up to, total, come to, equal. 2 sorry, we can't run to champagne. afford, stretch to, manage, have money for. 3 he was running to fat. tend to, show a tendency to; become, get, grow. run up his loose way of living ran up such big debts that he had to get out of town. accumulate, accrue, amass, collect, gather, stockpile, heap up, rack up, build up, scrape together, hoard, lay in/up, garner; British English tot up. the runs informal diarrhea, loose motions, looseness of the bowels; informal the skitters, the trots, Spanish tummy, Delhi belly, Montezuma's revenge, Aztec revenge, Aztec two-step; British English informal the squits, gippy tummy, holiday tummy; North American English informal turista; Medicine dysentery, lientery; archaic the flux, lax. ANTONYMS constipation. WORD LINKS -drome: place for running or racingWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.